.TH XDC-SECURITY 1 "February 2026" "XDC CLI 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
xdc-security \- XDC Node Security Audit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xdc security
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The security command performs a comprehensive audit of the XDC node security
configuration. By default, it operates in read-only mode and provides
recommendations without making any changes.
.SH SECURITY CHECKS
.SS SSH Configuration
.TP
.B Key-Only Authentication
Verifies PasswordAuthentication is disabled.
.TP
.B Non-Standard Port
Checks if SSH is running on a port other than 22.
.TP
.B Root Login Restricted
Verifies PermitRootLogin is set to 'no'.
.SS Network Security
.TP
.B Firewall Enabled
Checks if UFW firewall is active.
.TP
.B RPC Not Exposed
Verifies RPC endpoint is not exposed to 0.0.0.0.
.TP
.B WebSocket Not Exposed
Verifies WebSocket endpoint is not exposed externally.
.SS System Security
.TP
.B Fail2ban Active
Checks if fail2ban intrusion prevention is running.
.TP
.B Automatic Updates
Verifies unattended-upgrades is configured.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-audit\-only
Check only, don't apply changes (default behavior).
.TP
.B \-\-fix
Apply recommended security fixes with confirmation.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Output audit results in JSON format.
.TP
.B \-\-help, \-h
Show help message and exit.
.SH SECURITY SCORE
The audit provides a score from 0-100:
.TP
.B 80-100 (Green)
Good security posture.
.TP
.B 60-79 (Yellow)
Moderate security. Several recommendations should be addressed.
.TP
.B 0-59 (Red)
Poor security. Immediate attention required.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B xdc security
Run security audit in read-only mode.
.TP
.B xdc security \-\-fix
Run audit and apply recommended fixes interactively.
.TP
.B xdc security \-\-json
Output audit results as JSON.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xdc (1),
.BR sshd_config (5),
.BR ufw (8),
.BR fail2ban (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Anil Chinchawale <anil24593@gmail.com>
.SH SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
The \-\-fix option makes system changes. Always have a backup available
and test SSH access in a new session before closing current session.
