.TH XDC 1 "February 2026" "XDC CLI 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
xdc \- XDC Network Node Management CLI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xdc
.RI [ global-options ]\ <command>\ [ options ]\ [ arguments ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xdc
is an enterprise-grade command-line interface for managing XDC Network nodes.
It provides comprehensive tools for node setup, monitoring, maintenance, and
participation in the XDC Network consensus.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-json
Output results in JSON format for programmatic consumption.
.TP
.B \-\-quiet, \-q
Suppress non-essential output.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose, \-v
Show detailed output and debug information.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-color
Disable colored output.
.TP
.B \-\-rpc\ URL
Override the default RPC endpoint URL.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS General Commands
.TP
.B init
Interactive setup wizard for initial node configuration.
.TP
.B status
Show quick node status overview with setup progress.
.TP
.B health
Run comprehensive health checks on the node.
.TP
.B security
Run security audit (advisory only, use \-\-fix to apply).
.TP
.B update
Update node and check for new versions.
.TP
.B backup
Backup chaindata and configuration to archive.
.TP
.B restore
Restore node data from backup archive.
.TP
.B logs
View and tail node logs with filtering options.
.TP
.B restart
Graceful node restart with optional force mode.
.TP
.B stop
Stop all XDC containers and services.
.TP
.B start
Start the XDC node with auto-detection of ports.
.TP
.B attach
Attach to XDC JavaScript console (IPC or RPC).
.TP
.B config
View and edit node configuration.
.TP
.B version
Show CLI, client, and version information.
.TP
.B help\ [command]
Show help message or detailed help for specific command.
.SS XDC-Specific Commands
.TP
.B masternode
Setup and manage masternode operations.
.TP
.B peers
Optimize peer connections with latency ranking.
.TP
.B snapshot
Manage chain snapshots for faster syncing.
.TP
.B consensus
XDPoS v2 consensus monitoring.
.TP
.B governance
Governance participation.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Initialize a new node:
.RS
.B xdc init
.RE
.PP
Check node status:
.RS
.B xdc status
.RE
.PP
Check for updates:
.RS
.B xdc update \-\-check
.RE
.PP
Enable auto-updates:
.RS
.B xdc update \-\-auto
.RE
.PP
Get help for specific command:
.RS
.B xdc help start
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /opt/xdc-node/config.toml
Main configuration file.
.TP
.I /opt/xdc-node/VERSION
Current installed version.
.TP
.I /etc/xdc-node/bootnodes.conf
User-editable bootnodes configuration.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B XDC_HOME
Base directory for XDC node installation (default: /opt/xdc-node).
.TP
.B XDC_NETWORK
Network to use (mainnet, testnet, devnet).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xdc-setup (1),
.BR xdc-status (1),
.BR xdc-security (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Anil Chinchawale <anil24593@gmail.com>
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/AnilChinchawale/xdc-node-setup/issues
